Added solution for Packmen and Magic Ship (#573)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/CF Packmen.mdx

---
id: cf-packmen
source: CF
title: Packmen
author: Kevin Sheng
---

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N)$

Binary search on the minimum time it will take for all the Packmen to eat all the pellets.
For each Packman, we can greedily calculate the maximum number of pellets that it can eat in the given amount of time and then remove those pellets.

> Note that it is optimal for all of the Packmen to eat continuous segments of the food, and all of the segments must be non-intersecting. They must be continuous because if they weren't, a Packman could always eat it while going from one segment to another, thus making it continuous. Also, they must be non-intersecting because if they *were*, two Packmen would target the same pellet, thus resulting in wasted time.

Reviewer: Maybe phrase it as
"A packman will visit all pellets between the leftmost and rightmost pellets a it eats, so it can eat all of them without any time penalty" ?

Reviewer: "Also, they must be non-intersecting because if they *were*, either packman can ignore the pellets of the other packman." might be better?

> Each Packman must also eat all of the uneaten food to its left, or else all the food can't be eaten in the given time. Assigning other Packmen to the uneaten pellets would be pointless, because they would be farther away and thus have no way of reaching the uneatable pellet.

Reviewer: "or else all the food can't be eaten in the given time" isn't necessarily accurate, as is "because they would be farther away and thus have no way of reaching the uneatable pellet"

Author: Yeah, I cleared that up in the new version.

> There are two main cases we consider for each Packman: One where the Packman first goes to the right then to the left, and another where the Packman first goes to the *left* then the right. We calculate the food eaten in both of these cases and take the maximum. Note that there is also a special case where a Packman doesn't have any pellets to the left, so it can go to the right, eating as many pellets as time allows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two main cases we consider for each Packman: one where the Packman first goes to the right and then to the left, and another where the Packman first goes to the *left* and then to the right. We calculate the food eaten in both of these cases and take the maximum. Note that there is also a special case where a Packman doesn't have any pellets to the left, so it can go to the right, eating as many pellets as time allows.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, why is the case where there are no remaining pellets to the left a "special case"?

Author: Oh yeah, I wasn't really thinking when I wrote that. I probably put it as a special case because I had to implement an if-statement in my own solution to account for that case.

---
id: cf-packmen
source: CF
title: Packmen
author: Kevin Sheng
---

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N)$

Binary search on the minimum time it will take for all the Packmen to eat all the pellets.
For each Packman, we can greedily calculate the maximum number of pellets that it can eat in the given amount of time and then remove those pellets.

> Note that a Packman will visit all pellets between the leftmost and rightmost pellets a it eats, so it can eat all of them without any time penalty. Also, they must be non-intersecting because if they were, either Packman can ignore the pellets of the other Packman.

Reviewer: Add clarification sentence "This means that all packmen will eat contiguous segments," or "All packmen will eat a continuous range of pellets" or something along these lines.

Reviewer: Maybe phrase it like this?
```
Suppose we want to know whether the Packmen can eat all the pellets in $d$ units of time.

First, notice a few observations:
 * Each packman will eat a continuous subarray of the pellets, because a packman will visit all pellets between the leftmost and rightmost ones, and thus can eat all pellets between them with no additional time penalty.
 * No two packmen need to eat overlapping subarrays, as the region of overlap can be assigned to one of the packman and be ignored by the other
 * The leftmost packman will eat the leftmost subarray of pellets, because if this were not the case, the leftmost packman will necessarily cross over another packman. If this occurs, simply simulate (prevent) the crossing by reversing the directions of both packmen instead. This ensures the leftmost packman is always to the left of all other packmen, and thus will eat a subarray of pellets to the left of all others

We can repeatedly greedily assign the leftmost packman to the largest possible subarray of pellets that includes the leftmost pellet. Using this strategy, we can check whether all pellets can be eaten when the packmen are limited to $d$ units of time.
```

---
id: cf-packmen
source: CF
title: Packmen
author: Kevin Sheng
---

(No official editorial)

> Binary search on the minimum time it will take for all the Packmen to eat all the pellets.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean to add additional newlines between these lines to separate them into paragraphs?

Author: I guess?

Reviewer 2: So are you going to add those newlines? Right now, it's rendering as one big paragraph

Author: Actually, sorry, I didn't know what you meant by that. I meant to render it as a big paragraph, yet I added newlines for ease of editing.

For each Packman, we can greedily calculate the maximum number of pellets that it can eat in the given amount of time and then remove those pellets.

> However, each Packman must eat all of the uneaten food to its left, or else all the food can't be eaten in the given time. Assigning other Packmen to the uneaten pellets would be pointless, because they would be farther away and thus have no way of reaching the uneatable pellet.

Reviewer: Still quite unclear in my opinion.

First sentence can be "For each Packman, we can greedily assign the pellets it will eat"

The second part needs to be proof-like (to a certain extent) and articulate. I know this is difficult to do, but I think it's really beneficial. The way that FHC did it isn't optimal either, but it much more rigorous.

Key points for one possible explanation (similar to FHC):
 * Time only depends on leftmost and rightmost pellets. Therefore, every packman will eat a contiguous, disjoint subsegment
 * Prove that it is never less beneficial to assign packmen to subsegments in sorted order (with care, there are examples of subsegments that require packmen to be assigned in un-sorted order, but these can always be modified to work with sorted order)

Author: What's FHC?

Reviewer: facebook hacker cup. Here's [link](https://www.facebook.com/codingcompetitions/hacker-cup/2020/round-1/problems/B/solution)

Author: >  there are examples of subsegments that require packmen to be assigned in un-sorted order

Could I have a small example?

Reviewer: Packmen at positions 2 and 4.
Food at positions 0, 2, 6.

Assign packman 2 -> foods at 2 and 6
Assign packman 4 -> food at 0
The minimum # of steps is 4

You cannot simply swap and say packman 4 eats 2 and 6 because that's impossible in 4 steps. However, you can allocate food 2 to packman 2 to make it doable (and in even fewer steps).

Reviewer: Maybe something along these lines? (probably in a spoiler because its wall of text) I don't know why the proof is so messy and long. If you find a cleaner version please use it. 

1) Time only depends on leftmost and rightmost pellets. Therefore, every packman will eat a contiguous, disjoint subsegment (same as before)
2) From this point on, "solution" refers to a valid assignment of packmen -> pellets that takes less than $d$ time. If there exists a solution where packmen are assigned pellets in overlapping subsegments, there exists a solution where packmen are assigned pellets in non-overlapping subsegments (assign all overlapping pellets to either packman)
3) If there exists any solution, there exists a solution where the packmen are assigned subsegments in sorted order (i.e, the $i$-th packman in sorted order is assigned the $i$-th subsegment in sorted order)

Proof 1: Two consecutive packmen are at positions $x$ and $y$, where subsegment of $x$ is to the right of subsegment $y$. The union of these subsegments is from $l$ to $r$ (and all pellets between). Assume $l \leq (x+y)/2 \leq r$. Otherwise, the claim is true by reassigning all pellets in the range to the closer packman. Since subsegment of $x$ is to the right of that of $y$, Packman at $x$ eats pellet $r$ and packman at $y$ eats pellet $l$. Thus, $max(r-x, y-l) \leq d$. We find a different pellet assignment that requires no greater than the same time $d$. Assign packman $x$ to all pellets in the range $[l, (x+y)/2]$, and packman $y$ to all pellets in the range $[(x+y)/2, r]$. Packman $x$ can travel $(x+y)/2 - x + (x+y)/2 - l = y-l$ time, and packman $y$ can travel $y-(x+y)/2+r-(x+y)/2 = r-x$ time. Thus, a solution with total time $max(y-l, r-x)$, no more than the total time $d$ of the solution, is achieved.

Proof 2: More of a thought experiment?? Number the packmen $1 \dots N$ from left to right. Simulate the packmen's movement as described in problem. However, when two packmen cross, instead switch both of their directions and not allow them to cross (similar to ant on stick problem). Notice how the overall movement and all covered regions (and thus eaten pellets) stay exactly the same. Also, this requires exactly the same amount of time. Now, packman $i$ is always to the left of packman $i+1$, so it's interval must be also to the left of packman $i+1$. 

4) Since leftmost packman must cover a leftmost subsegment, simply assign it the largest such subsegment.

Author: > Food at positions 0, 2, 6.

I thought all the food and packmen had to be at distinct positions (not that it really matters)

Reviewer: oh, ok. well idea is still there

Note that there are two main cases: One where the Packman first goes to the right then to the left, and another where the Packman first goes to the *left* then the right. We calculate the food eaten in both of these cases and take the maximum. Note that there is also a special case where a Packman doesn't have any pellets to the left, so it can go to the right, eating as many pellets as time allows.

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N)$

Reviewer 2: Move this to the top of the editorial

Author: Just the "two main cases" part of the time complexity?

Reviewer 2: Just the time complexity line

 * No two Packmen need to eat overlapping subarrays, as the region of overlap can be assigned to one of the Packman and be ignored by the other.
 * The leftmost Packman will eat the leftmost subarray of pellets, because if this were not the case, the leftmost Packman will definitely cross over another Packman. If this occurs, simply simulate (prevent) the crossing by reversing the directions of both Packmen instead. This ensures the leftmost Packman is always to the left of all other Packmen, and thus will eat a subarray of pellets to the left of all others.

We can repeatedly greedily assign the leftmost Packman to the largest possible subarray of pellets that includes the leftmost pellet. Using this strategy, we can check whether all pellets can be eaten when the Packmen are limited to $d$ units of time.
In the below solution, we keep a sorted deque of all the pellet positions. For each Packman, we calculate the maximum amount of pellets it can eat so that no more pellets are to the left, and then we remove all those pellets from the deque.

> However, if a Packman can't eat the leftmost uneaten pellet, then this time would be invalid.

Reviewer: "then the time $d$ would be invalid, as we have shown that given a valid time $d$ there must exist an assignment where the leftmost Packman does eat the leftmost uneaten pellet"

> There are two main cases we consider for each Packman: one where the Packman first goes to the right and then to the left, and another where the Packman first goes to the *left* and then to the right. We calculate the pellet eaten in both of these cases and take the maximum.

Reviewer: Paragraph breaks.

I definitely suggest one before "There are two main cases," but feel free to add more to make it less wall of text.

---
id: cf-packmen
source: CF
title: Packmen
author: Kevin Sheng
---

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log N)$

Binary search on the minimum time it will take for all the Packmen to eat all the pellets.
In that case, we would have to check whether the Packmen can eat all the pellets in $d$ units of time.

First, notice a few observations:
 * Each Packman will eat a continuous subarray of the pellets, because a Packman will visit all pellets between the leftmost and rightmost ones, and thus can eat all pellets between them with no additional time penalty.
 * No two Packmen need to eat overlapping subarrays, as the region of overlap can be assigned to one of the Packman and be ignored by the other.
 * The leftmost Packman will eat the leftmost subarray of pellets, because if this were not the case, the leftmost Packman will definitely cross over another Packman. If this occurs, simply simulate (prevent) the crossing by reversing the directions of both Packmen instead. This ensures the leftmost Packman is always to the left of all other Packmen, and thus will eat a subarray of pellets to the left of all others.

> We can repeatedly greedily assign the leftmost Packman to the largest possible subarray of pellets that includes the leftmost pellet. Using this strategy, we can check whether all pellets can be eaten when the Packmen are limited to $d$ units of time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can repeatedly greedily assign the leftmost unprocessed Packman to the largest possible subarray of pellets that includes the leftmost uneaten pellet. Using this strategy, we can check whether all pellets can be eaten when the Packmen are limited to $d$ units of time.
```

> In the below solution, we keep a sorted deque of all the pellet positions. For each Packman, we calculate the maximum amount of pellets it can eat so that no more pellets are to the left, and then we remove all those pellets from the deque.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the below solution, we keep a sorted deque of all the pellet positions. For each Packman, we calculate the maximum number of pellets it can eat so that no pellets to the left are uneaten, and then we remove the eaten pellets from the deque.
```

However, if a Packman can't eat the leftmost uneaten pellet, then the time $d$ would be invalid, as we have shown previously that given a valid time $d$ there must exist an assignment where the leftmost Packman does eat the leftmost uneaten pellet.

> There are two main cases we consider for each Packman: one where the Packman first goes to the right and then to the left, and another where the Packman first goes to the *left* and then to the right. We calculate the pellet eaten in both of these cases and take the maximum.

Reviewer: Last sentence needs grammar fix.
Maybe "We calculate the subarray of pellets eaten in both of these cases and assign the larger one to the packman."
